Add blog 4.3 release (#354)
codeigniter4projects/website: content/blog/2023-01-10.4.3-released.md

---
title: CodeIgniter 4.3 Released
tags: news, releases
author: kenjis
---

> Thanks to the team and many contributors, we released v4.3.0 with many enhancements.

Reviewer: Since this is a blog I'm going to recommend more colloquial changes; doesn't mean anything is wrong, so take them or leave them. 
```suggestion
Thanks to the team and many contributors, we released v4.3.0 with lots of enhancements.
```

Unfortunately, **there are some breaking changes, so please upgrade with caution**.

> Please read [ChangeLog](https://www.codeigniter.com/user_guide/changelogs/v4.3.0.html) and [Upgrading Guide](https://www.codeigniter.com/user_guide/installation/upgrade_430.html) carefully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please read the [ChangeLog](https://www.codeigniter.com/user_guide/changelogs/v4.3.0.html) and the [Upgrading Guide](https://www.codeigniter.com/user_guide/installation/upgrade_430.html) carefully.
```

> **You must update spark file and a few Config files.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**You must update the spark executable and a few Config files.**
```

> I hope most existing apps will not break unless you use your own classes that extend framework classes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most existing apps will not need more intervention, unless you use your own classes that extend framework classes.
```

And some of the default Config values in the Config files have changed, but existing apps will most likely not break unless you change the Config values by yourself.

**This release contains over 50 enhancements.** A few things I want to highlight:

- Query Builder supports `upsert()` and `upsertBatch()`, `deleteBatch()`, and now `*batch()` methods can set data from a query

> - Database Forge supports to add indexes in the existing tables and name indexes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Database Forge supports adding indexes in the existing tables and named indexes
```

- "`spark route`" command enhancements
- Improvement for CLI command testing
- View Cells enhancements

> You can see the list of enhancements in [ChangeLog](https://www.codeigniter.com/user_guide/changelogs/v4.3.0.html#enhancements)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see the list of enhancements in the [ChangeLog](https://www.codeigniter.com/user_guide/changelogs/v4.3.0.html#enhancements)
```
